	We'll begin with our team. From right to left, we start with Nicholas Vakhordjian, an electrical engineer minoring in computer engineering. Nicholas has been tasked with most of the software development being performed in this project. Next is Jacob Henderson, an electrical engineering major. Jacob has been tasked with designing the hardware and pcb layout for power transmission and data display. Finally there is myself, Ryan Witt, an electrical engineering major. I have been tasked with desigining the hardware and pcb layout for the power harvesting module and environmental sensor.

	Our motivation to do this project comes from a request made by one of the dynamic microsystem lab's postdoctoral scholars. He asked us to make a system that could eventually implement one of his acoustoelectric RF rectifiers as a proof-of-concept for their real world application. The system described in this presentation will not use one of these rectifiers, as that would transform it into a research project. Instead, it will use a standard diode based rectification circuit to convert captured RF power into DC. After senior design, an acoustoelectric rectifier will be spliced in to replace the standard rectification circuit, hopefully demonstrating its superiority over diode rectification.
	This project will take the form of an environmental monitoring system. Environmental sensor arrays are highly important for ecological protection and monitoring. Typically, they are placed in locations that are difficult to access, which can make servicing them impractical, costly, or even dangerous. Solar panels are often used, but they wear out, and operation periods greater than 25 years are often desirable. RF power is abundant in the form of ambient radio waves, and antennas have wear lives that can be effectively indefinite.

	Therefore, we have decided to implement a passive environmental sensor powered by harvested RF energy. Our basic goals include the design of a relatively compact handheld RF transeiver which will be able to power and read data from a passive sensor station gathering temperature and humidity information from the surrounding environment. Our advanced goals are to increase the effective transmission and charging range as well as include additional sensors on the platform. Our stretch goals include actually utilizing an acoustoelectric RF rectification device in place of our diode-based solution and, if performance allows, powering the device strictly off of ambient, non-directed RF power.

	Our basic objectives begin with the development of an RF energy harvesting circuit utilizing an RF to DC converter, a storage element, and a voltage regulator to supply power to the passive microctontroller and its onboard sensors. Next, we will demonstrate RF power transmission from the handheld transeiver to the passive sensor via a highly directional antenna to minimize power loss. Finally, we will transmit bluetooth data packets from the sensor to the transceiver with minimal energy consumption. Our advanced objectives include adding more low-power sensors to the board while keeping overall power usage strictly low and minimizing overall sensor board power usage by optimizing the hardware and the software.  Our stretch objectives include the implementation of an actual acoustoelectric rectification device as a replacement for the much lossier diode-based solution as well as designing and implementing more effective transmission and reception antennas to increase harvested power to the point where ambient RF energy can power the sensor node.

	We will now describe our engineering specifications. Our charging distance should be less than or equal to one meter. We must communicate and provide power across unrestricted frequency bands. Our development cost should be below 500 dollars. The sensor should consume less than 200 microjoules of energy. There should be at least two unique simultaneous sensor readings. The sensor should not take more than one minute to charge. The handheld transceiver must not exceed 36 dBm of power transmission. The transceiver should have enough onboard energy to power 50 uses.

Our harvested energy storage element must give us a measure of its available energy, have low leakage, have a long life, and have low loss. We chose capacitors for their direct energy-voltage relation, the possibility of ultra low leakage, indefinite lifetime, and low ESR

Our capacitor must have low leakage, or equivalently a large insulation resistance, a long lifetime, a low loss tangent, which is directly related to ESR, and a large relative energy density. we chose polypropylene film capacitors for the ultra-large tens of gigaohm insulation resistance, the fact that they are effectively ageless at the voltages we will be applying, their ultra low loss tangent, and their moderate energy density.

As in the previous slide, insulation resistance, capacitance density, and dissipation factor (which is equivalent to loss tangent), are crucial. We chose the Kemet C4A for its 30 giga-ohm insulation resistance, moderate capacitance density, and superior dissipation factor.